**🧪 Alternative Hosting is experimental, feel free to provide feedback if you encounter issues!**

----

# Example : Serverless Data Portal with Alternative Hosting

This repository is an example implementation of the [@globus/template-data-portal](https://github.com/globus/template-data-portal).


You can create your own portal with similar functionality by following the [**Creating Your Own Research Data Portal**](https://github.com/globus/template-data-portal?tab=readme-ov-file#creating-your-own-research-data-portal) section in the template repository and then referencing the sections below.

## Background

When using our [Serverless Portal Templates](https://github.com/orgs/globus/repositories?q=topic%3Aportal+template%3Atrue), your portal will be automatically deployed via GitHub Actions to GitHub Pages; for most implementations, this results in a simple way to quickly distribute a portal without having to manage infrastructure. However, our toolchain allows you to fully customize and control where your application is deployed.

## Customizing the Built-In Workflow

The `.github/workflows/static.yml` is responsible for building your portal using the configured generator and configured content (e.g. `static.json` and `content` directory). Two modifications are required in order to utilize your own hosting mechanism:

1. Disable GitHub Pages Deployment
2. Add your own [GitHub Action Job](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/using-jobs-in-a-workflow) that uses the `static`-generated Artifact


### Disable GitHub Pages Deployment

In your  `.github/workflows/static.yml`, update the `static` workflow to include the input `deploy_to_github_pages: false`. This will signal to the workflow to **not** deploy the generated artifact to GitHub Pages.

```yaml
jobs:
  static:
    uses: from-static/actions/.github/workflows/static.yml@v2
    with:
      deploy_to_github_pages: false
```

### Add your own job that uses the `static`-generated Artifact

With the `static` workflow deployment disabled, you can now add additional jobs that utilize the generated artifact, including upload to your custom host.

There are a few important implementation details to consider when adding your own job:

- The `static` workflow produces an asset named `github-pages`.
  - Currently, the produced artifact is the result of [`actions/upload-pages-artifact@v3`](https://github.com/actions/upload-pages-artifact/tree/v3).
- Our Serverless Portal Templates use [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) to export a static site. Their documentation on [deploying a static export](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/deploying/static-exports#deploying) can be helpful when configuring your infrastructure to handle requests properly.

In the below example, a `deploy` job is configured to deploy the generated assets to Amazon S3.

```yaml
  deploy:
    # Our deploy process requires the `static` job to complete first.
    needs: [static]
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    # Download the artifact that was generated by the `static` job.
    - uses: actions/download-artifact@v4
      with:
        name: github-pages
    # Extract the artifact...
    - run: mkdir artifact
    - run: tar -xf artifact.tar -C ./artifact
    # ...and deploy it to S3.
    - name: Configure AWS Credentials
      uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v4
      with:
        role-to-assume: arn:aws:iam::431478890660:role/globus_example-data-portal-alternative-hosting-action
        aws-region: us-east-1
    - run: |
        aws s3 sync ./artifact s3://globus-serverless-data-portal-example
```


## Common (Required) Changes to Configurations

When you update your portal to be deployed to an alternative host, there are likely configuration values in your `static.json` and Globus Application (when using Globus Auth for authentication) that will need to be updated to reflect your new (custom) host. Commonly, these configuration changes include:

- Updating your Globus Application **Redirects** to include your new host (e.g. `https://{CUSTOM_HOST}/authenticate`).









